s3/README.md, before:

# Solution 03 : APIM validating OAuth token in Liferay

- Web component: utilizes the Liferay object Liferay.OAuth2Client.FromUserAgentApplication(custom scope).
- Liferay OAuth2 client acts as an intermediary.
- More precisely: an external client of type oAuthApplicationUserAgent on the custom scope.
- In the Liferay admin, under Service Access policies, creating OAUTH2_(custom scope) allows creating a scope without additional development.
- The condition is that the API manager validates the token with Liferay, using this scope. This effectively enables "forwarding" to a backend service with a different domain name.
- Note: to achieve this, the token is temporarily stored in session storage.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor Bob's browser
    Bob's browser->>+Liferay DXP: Access home page
    Liferay DXP-->>-Bob's browser: Return portal page
    Bob's browser->>+App container: Starting loading SPA
    App container-->>-Bob's browser: Returning SPA statics (js,css)
    App container->>+Liferay DXP: Negociating Oauth2 token
    Note right of Liferay DXP: Authorization Code Flow <br/>using configured OAuth App in Liferay
    Liferay DXP-->>-App container: Access Token
    App container->>+APIM: Requesting API call using token
    APIM->>+Liferay DXP: Request validation of Access Token
    Liferay DXP-->>-APIM: Token valid
    APIM->>+Back End Service : Forwarding API call
    Back End Service-->>-Bob's browser: Returning datas to browser
```

## Setup

### Configure /etc/hosts
You need to properly configure hostnames to make this setup working as expected
See [/etc/hosts configuration](../README.md)

### Build stack
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./build.sh
```

### Deploy
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./deploy.sh
```

### Starting stack
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./start.sh
```
### Manual actions

#### Configure Virtual instance host

 Using control panel configure company's virtual instance following screenshot below

![Virtual Host](./images/virtual-host.png "Virtual Host configuration")

#### Configure service access policy to create a new OAuth 2.0 scope

Creation of available scopes remain a manual operation

In Liferay Control Panel, go to Service Access Policy and hit the + button to create a new Service Access Policy.

For the name: **OAUTH2_apim.httpbin.mock.read**

The OAUTH2_ prefix is used to register new scopes in Liferay.

Check Enabled

For the title: Make requests against https://httpbin.org/get

Hit Save.

Repeat operation for **OAUTH2_apim.communes.read**

#### Update clientId and secret in front-end app
Using control panel :
1. Generate secret for configured client
![Generate secret](./images/oauth2.0-secret.png "Generate secret")

2. Copy clientId
![ClientId](./images/oauth2.0-clientId.png "ClientId")

3. Update APP1 
Update Oauth 2.O App1 configuration : 
    a. Edit ./front-end/app1/src/services/ApimClient.js
    b. At the top of the class update json with clientId and secret 

4. reBuild APP1
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./rebuildApp1.sh
```

####  Pages creation
Create page for app1 :
1. Create page app1
2. Under Remote Apps section drop App1 on the page

Create page for app2 :
1. Create page app2
2. Under Remote Apps section drop App2 on the page

####  Update callback URLs
Update callback URL according to create pages :
![CCallback URI](./images/oauth2.0-callbackuri.png "Callback URI")

copy / paste the following in the field visible on screenshot above 

```code
@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@/o/oauth2/redirect
http://app1.dev.local:3000
@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@/app1
@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@/app2
http://tester.dev.local/authorization_code_pkce?url=@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@&client_id=id-2ede2606-9967-e3af-db74-4d94c68ebd
http://tester.dev.local/authorization_code?url=@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@&client_id=id-2ede2606-9967-e3af-db74-4d94c68ebd
```

## Utils

### 1. Exposed services

#### 1. APIM

| Service             | Title   | Links |
| --------         | ------- | -------                                                        |
| Cities           | https://apim.dev.local:8443/cities      | Returned the headers of original request has a response |
| Debug            | http://apim.dev.local:8800/debug/get    | Returned all french cities using the public french government API |

#### 2. PORTAL

| Service             | Title   | Links |
| --------         | ------- | -------                                                        |
| Liferay           | https://portal.dev.local:8080      | URL of Liferay portal |


#### 3. APPS


| Service             | Title   | Links |
| --------         | ------- | -------                                                        |
| APP1             | https://app1.dev.local:3000     | URL of first app declared has client extension on Liferay |
| APP2             | https://app2.dev.local:3000     | URL of second app declared has client extension on Liferay |

## Troubleshooting

Commit message:

Authorization code flow PKCE WIP

s3/README.md, after:

# Solution 03 : APIM validating OAuth token in Liferay

- Web component: utilizes the Liferay object Liferay.OAuth2Client.FromUserAgentApplication(custom scope).
- Liferay OAuth2 client acts as an intermediary.
- More precisely: an external client of type oAuthApplicationUserAgent on the custom scope.
- In the Liferay admin, under Service Access policies, creating OAUTH2_(custom scope) allows creating a scope without additional development.
- The condition is that the API manager validates the token with Liferay, using this scope. This effectively enables "forwarding" to a backend service with a different domain name.
- Note: to achieve this, the token is temporarily stored in session storage.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor Bob's browser
    Bob's browser->>+Liferay DXP: Access home page
    Liferay DXP-->>-Bob's browser: Return portal page
    Bob's browser->>+App container: Starting loading SPA
    App container-->>-Bob's browser: Returning SPA statics (js,css)
    App container->>+Liferay DXP: Negociating Oauth2 token
    Note right of Liferay DXP: Authorization Code Flow <br/>using configured OAuth App in Liferay
    Liferay DXP-->>-App container: Access Token
    App container->>+APIM: Requesting API call using token
    APIM->>+Liferay DXP: Request validation of Access Token
    Liferay DXP-->>-APIM: Token valid
    APIM->>+Back End Service : Forwarding API call
    Back End Service-->>-Bob's browser: Returning datas to browser
```

## Setup

### Configure /etc/hosts
You need to properly configure hostnames to make this setup working as expected
See [/etc/hosts configuration](../README.md)

### Build stack
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./build.sh
```

### Deploy
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./deploy.sh
```

### Starting stack
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./start.sh
```
### Manual actions

#### Configure Virtual instance host

 Using control panel configure company's virtual instance following screenshot below

![Virtual Host](./images/virtual-host.png "Virtual Host configuration")

#### Configure service access policy to create a new OAuth 2.0 scope

Creation of available scopes remain a manual operation

In Liferay Control Panel, go to Service Access Policy and hit the + button to create a new Service Access Policy.

For the name: **OAUTH2_apim.httpbin.mock.read**

The OAUTH2_ prefix is used to register new scopes in Liferay.

Check Enabled

For the title: Make requests against https://httpbin.org/get

Hit Save.

Repeat operation for **OAUTH2_apim.communes.read**

#### Create OAuth Client declaration for each app

IMPORTANT NOTES : 
* Authorization code flow with PKCE doesn't need a secret to work
* APP2 uses Liferay OOTB client to work that is abble to automatically retrieve clientId from the configuration. No update is necessary to make app2 work.

Using control panel (be aware of selecting APP1 configuration):

1. Copy clientId
![ClientId](./images/oauth2.0-clientId.png "ClientId")

2. Update APP1 
Update Oauth 2.O App1 configuration : 
    a. Edit ./front-end/app1/src/services/ApimClient.js
    b. At the top of the class update json with clientId and secret 

3. reBuild APP1
```shell
$ cd ./runtime-environment
$ ./rebuildApp1.sh
```

####  Pages creation
Create page for app1 :
1. Create page app1
2. Under Remote Apps section drop App1 on the page

Create page for app2 :
1. Create page app2
2. Under Remote Apps section drop App2 on the page

####  Update callback URLs in the two Oauth configurations
Update callback URL according to create pages :
![CCallback URI](./images/oauth2.0-callbackuri.png "Callback URI")

copy / paste the following in the field visible on screenshot above 

```code
@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@/o/oauth2/redirect
http://app1.dev.local:3000
@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@/app1
@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@/app2
http://tester.dev.local/authorization_code_pkce?url=@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@&client_id=id-2ede2606-9967-e3af-db74-4d94c68ebd
http://tester.dev.local/authorization_code?url=@protocol@://portal.dev.local@port-with-colon@&client_id=id-2ede2606-9967-e3af-db74-4d94c68ebd
```

## Utils

### 1. Exposed services

#### 1. APIM

| Service             | Title   | Links |
| --------         | ------- | -------                                                        |
| Cities           | https://apim.dev.local:8443/cities      | Returned the headers of original request has a response |
| Debug            | http://apim.dev.local:8800/debug/get    | Returned all french cities using the public french government API |

#### 2. PORTAL

| Service             | Title   | Links |
| --------         | ------- | -------                                                        |
| Liferay           | https://portal.dev.local:8080      | URL of Liferay portal |


#### 3. APPS


| Service             | Title   | Links |
| --------         | ------- | -------                                                        |
| APP1             | https://app1.dev.local:3000     | URL of first app declared has client extension on Liferay |
| APP2             | https://app2.dev.local:3000     | URL of second app declared has client extension on Liferay |

## Troubleshooting
